Asia
China
In China, summer vacation (aka summer holidays) usually starts in late June to mid-July (after the end of the school year) and ends around September 1 (the beginning of the new school year), lasting from one and a half to two and a half months.

India
In India, summer vacation lasts for around 1.5 – 2 months (6–8 weeks), the minimum time and span of dates of which the Government decides for the most part while private schools are allowed to extend them. Summer break/vacation time and length varies from region to region due to India's diverse climate. Typical summer vacation is from mid-late May to early July in the Northern states and from mid-April to the end of May or early June in the Southern States. In the northeastern state of Assam, summer vacation usually begins in the last week of June or first week of July. Schools reopen in the last week of July or first week of August.

Japan
In Japan, most businesses close for a few days in August around Obon, while schools close for around six weeks (usually the second half of July and all of August). As most schools in the country run between April and March of the following year, the summer vacation period actually takes place within the school year.[15]

Philippines
Select universities have adapted the school year schedule of other countries, starting the school year in September and having the summer holidays from June to August.[16][17] Some of the schools that complied are still in transition, their academic calendars still beginning in July, others in August, with their summer vacations adjusted accordingly.[18]

Turkey
In Turkey, the summer vacation typically begins in mid-June and lasts until mid-September. However, the exact start and end dates can vary depending on the level of education and the type of school. For elementary, middle, and high school students, summer vacation usually lasts about three months, while for university students, the duration may vary based on the academic calendar of the institution. Public schools generally start their summer break in the second week of June, but private schools may have slightly different schedules. For the most accurate information on the academic year and vacation periods, it's best to consult the specific school or educational institution the student attends.[19]

Oceania
New Zealand
In New Zealand, the school holidays typically start in early to mid-December, and end in late January or early February, which is usually 6–8 weeks.[20]

Europe
Belgium
The summer holidays for primary and secondary education in Flanders run from 1 July to 31 August. These are not always whole weeks. In Wallonia and French-speaking education, the summer holidays start in the second week of July, and lessons are also resumed in the last week of August. The school holidays in French-speaking education have been reformed from the 2022–2023 school year, in Flanders the two-month summer holiday will be maintained. At universities, colleges and education for social advancement, the holidays for students usually last a little longer. They start in the course of September, and the exams are already at the beginning of June. For companies and public administrations, the most popular period is the end of July - beginning of August, coinciding with the construction holiday. However, there is a tendency to keep shops, services and businesses open during the summer holidays, albeit with a more limited staffing. The employees and civil servants must then agree on a rotation to take vacation.

Croatia
In Croatia, school year finishes at 21 June, starting again on the first Monday of September, but if it is 1 or 2 September, then school year will start 7 days later.[21] Until school year 2018./2019., school was over between 10 and 15 June, but with same starting date.[22] Students of last year of secondary school finish school year between 21 and 26 May, but they have national exams during whole June, called "matura".[23]

Czech Republic
In the Czech Republic, summer holiday begins on July 1 and ends on August 31 (2 months).[24]

Germany
In the Federal Republic of Germany, school holidays are set by the 16 state governments and are mandatory for all schools in primary and secondary education. For the summer vacation in particular, the start and end dates are coordinated among states and somewhat rotate, so the local school year varies in length. This roster has been introduced in the 1970s to better distribute demand for hotel rooms and holiday homes throughout peak season.[25]

The summer vacation lasts for six weeks and up to three days. It usually includes 1 August, which is the formal start date of the school year, but this will be close to the end for some states and close to the start for others. This amounts to about half of the total school holidays, which also include up to two weeks each in autumn, winter (around Christmas) and spring (around Easter).

Iceland
In Iceland, the duration of the summer vacation can vary from one school to another. Typically students start their summer vacation during the first week of June and return to school in the fourth week of August.[26]

Ireland
In the Republic of Ireland, most secondary schools start summer holidays at the end of May or the start of June. However, Junior and Leaving Certificate exams will take place during June. Schools will usually open again at the end of August to the start of September. Primary schools in the Republic of Ireland are sixteen days longer, so they start their summer holiday at the end of June but do not return until the first week of September.[27] Private schools follow the same pattern.

Italy
In Italy the summer holiday usually starts on the first half of June and ends on the first half of September for a total of about three months. The exact dates usually depend on region and year.